Auth: update generic OAuth documentation (#70330)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/generic-oauth/index.md

# Configure generic OAuth authentication

> 

Reviewer: Would love an intro here about what authentication is, 2 or 3 sentences, with a link out to more information about authentication is. Think about it this way - a user does a google search and lands on this page. What content do you want them to see in order to get oriented?

Author: We've got a short intro here: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/. We could extend it a bit more when we update this page. Do you think that's enough, or should we have a quick into to authentication on all auth provider pages? Alternatively, we could also reference [this page](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/) from the top of the generic auth page.

Grafana has specialised OAuth2 integrations for the following auth providers:

- [Azure AD OAuth]({{< relref "../azuread" >}})
- [GitHub OAuth]({{< relref "../github" >}})
- [GitLab OAuth]({{< relref "../gitlab" >}})
- [Google OAuth]({{< relref "../google" >}})
- [Grafana Com OAuth]({{< relref "../grafana-com" >}})
- [KeyCloak OAuth]({{< relref "../keycloak" >}})
- [Okta OAuth]({{< relref "../okta" >}})

If your OAuth2 provider is not among them, you can use generic OAuth authentication to integrate it with Grafana.

> ## Example configuration

Reviewer: Why is this example here? Without any kind of introduction content to explain what I'm seeing, this seems kind of random.

1. Update `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of Grafana configuration file with details from you OAuth2 app. You must specify the following configuration options:

- `enabled`
- `client_id`
- `client_secret`
- `auth_url`
- `token_url`
- `api_url`

1. (Optional) Look at the list of optional Grafana general OAuth configuration options and fill in the desired ones.
1. Configure [role mapping]({{< relref "#role-mapping" >}}).
1. (Optional) Configure [team synchronization]({{< relref "#team-synchronization" >}}).

Continue reading this documentation to learn more about [configuring your OAuth2 app]({{< relref "#configuring-your-oauth2-app" >}}) and [configuring Grafana]({{< relref "#configuring-grafana" >}}).

## Configuring your OAuth2 app

The process of creating an OAuth2 app will differ depending on the OAuth provider that you want to use.
We provide some [examples of setting up generic OAuth]({{< relref "#examples-of-setting-up-generic-oauth" >}}), but please refer to the documentation of your OAuth provider to help you with this step.

OAuth application will provide you with a client ID and a client secret, which you will use in Grafana's Generic OAuth configuration.

> ### Callback URL

Reviewer: Why is this here? Should this be a step in the task above?

| `groups_attribute_path`      | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for user group lookup. Grafana will first evaluate the expression using the OAuth2 ID token. If no groups are found, the expression will be evaluated using the user information obtained from the UserInfo endpoint. The result of the evaluation should be a string array of groups.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                 |

> | `allowed_groups`             | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. The user should be a member of at least one group to log in. Use together with `groups_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                 |

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "Use together with..." means. What are we trying to say here?

| `use_pkce`                   | No       | Set to `true` to use [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636). Grafana uses the SHA256 based `S256` challenge method and a 128 bytes (base64url encoded) code verifier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `false`         |

> ### Email address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure email address
```

| `upn` field of the OAuth2 ID token.                                                                                                                                     | n/a                                                                                                                  |
| `email` field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint.                                                                                                       | n/a                                                                                                                  |
| Another field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint.                                                                                                       | Set `email_attribute_path` configuration option.                                                                     |
| Email address marked as primary from the `/emails` endpoint of <br /> the OAuth2 provider (obtained by appending `/emails` to the URL <br /> configured with `api_url`) | n/a                                                                                                                  |

> ### Login

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure login
```

Grafana looks at these sources in the order listed until a login is found.
If no login is found, then user's login will be set to user's email address.

Refer to the following table for information on what you need to configure depending on how your Oauth2 provider returns users' login:

| Source of login                                                                 | Required configuration                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `login` or `username` field of the OAuth2 ID token.                             | n/a                                              |
| Another field of the OAuth2 ID token.                                           | Set `login_attribute_path` configuration option. |
| `login` or `username` field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint. | n/a                                              |
| Another field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint.               | Set `login_attribute_path` configuration option. |

> ### Display name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure display name
```

Grafana looks at these sources in the order listed until a display name is found.
If no display name is found, then user's login will be displayed instead.

Refer to the following table for information on what you need to configure depending on how your Oauth2 provider returns users' name:

| Source of display name                                                             | Required configuration                          |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `name` or `display_name` field of the OAuth2 ID token.                             | n/a                                             |
| Another field of the OAuth2 ID token.                                              | Set `name_attribute_path` configuration option. |
| `name` or `display_name` field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint. | n/a                                             |
| Another field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint.                  | Set `name_attribute_path` configuration option. |

> ## Refresh token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure refresh token
```

> **Note:** This feature is behind the `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.

When a user logs in using an OAuth2 provider, Grafana verifies that the access token has not expired. When an access token expires, Grafana uses the provided refresh token (if any exists) to obtain a new access token.

Grafana uses a refresh token to obtain a new access token without requiring the user to log in again. If a refresh token doesn't exist, Grafana logs the user out of the system after the access token has expired.

To configure generic OAuth2 to use a refresh token, perform one or both of the following tasks, if required:

- Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.generic_oauth]` section in Grafana configuration file with additional scopes
- Enable the refresh token on the provider

> ## Role Mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure role Mapping
```

| `groups_attribute_path`      | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for user group lookup. Grafana will first evaluate the expression using the OAuth2 ID token. If no groups are found, the expression will be evaluated using the user information obtained from the UserInfo endpoint. The result of the evaluation should be a string array of groups.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                 |

> | `allowed_groups`             | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. The user should be a member of at least one group to log in. Use together with `groups_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                 |

Reviewer: I don't understand what "Use together with..." means.

Author: “Used together with” means that if you use config option X, you also need to use option Y. How would you rephrase that?

> | `allowed_groups`             | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. The user should be a member of at least one group to log in. Use together with `groups_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allowed_groups`             | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. The user should be a member of at least one group to log in. If you configure `allowed_groups`, you must also configure  `groups_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                 |
```

| `allowed_domains`            | No       | List comma- or space-separated domains. The user should belong to at least one domain to log in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                 |

> | `team_ids`                   | No       | String list of team IDs. If set, the user must be a member of one of the given teams to log in. Used together with `teams_url` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                 |

Reviewer: Not sure what "Used together with..."

> | `team_ids`                   | No       | String list of team IDs. If set, the user must be a member of one of the given teams to log in. Used together with `teams_url` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `team_ids`                   | No       | String list of team IDs. If set, the user must be a member of one of the given teams to log in. If you configure `team_ids`, you must also configure `teams_url` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                 |
```

> | `team_ids_attribute_path`    | No       | The [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for Grafana team ID lookup within the results returned by the `teams_url` endpoint. Used together with `team_ids` and `teams_url`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `team_ids_attribute_path`    | No       | The [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for Grafana team ID lookup within the results returned by the `teams_url` endpoint. If you configure `team_ids_attribute_path`, you must also configure  `team_ids` and `teams_url`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                 |
```

| `upn` field of the OAuth2 ID token.                                                                                                                                     | N/A                                                                                                                |
| `email` field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint.                                                                                                       | N/A                                                                                                                |
| Another field of the user information from the UserInfo endpoint.                                                                                                       | Set `email_attribute_path` configuration option.                                                                   |
| Email address marked as primary from the `/emails` endpoint of <br /> the OAuth2 provider (obtained by appending `/emails` to the URL <br /> configured with `api_url`) | N/A                                                                                                                |

> ## Configure a refresh token

Reviewer: @IevaVasiljeva , should this be an H3 so that it is nested under "Configuration options"?

Author: It's not in the configuration option table, so I would keep it separate. I think it's fine to have another section with extra description for the refresh token step.

Reviewer: Ok 👍

> **Note:** This feature is behind the `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.

When a user logs in using an OAuth2 provider, Grafana verifies that the access token has not expired. When an access token expires, Grafana uses the provided refresh token (if any exists) to obtain a new access token.

Grafana uses a refresh token to obtain a new access token without requiring the user to log in again. If a refresh token doesn't exist, Grafana logs the user out of the system after the access token has expired.

To configure generic OAuth2 to use a refresh token, perform one or both of the following steps, if required:

1. Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.generic_oauth]` section in Grafana configuration file with additional scopes.
1. Enable the refresh token on the provider.

> ## Configure role mapping

Reviewer: @IevaVasiljeva , should this be an H3 so that it is nested under "Configuration options"?

Author: Role mapping is a step that has caused a lot of pain to customers, and that customers sometimes configure separately from the initial auth provider integration setup. So I think it's good to have it more visible.

Reviewer: 👍

# Configure generic OAuth2 authentication

{{< docs/shared "auth/intro.md" >}}

> Grafana has specialised OAuth2 integrations for the following auth providers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana provides OAuth2 integrations for the following auth providers:
```

- [Azure AD OAuth]({{< relref "../azuread" >}})
- [GitHub OAuth]({{< relref "../github" >}})
- [GitLab OAuth]({{< relref "../gitlab" >}})
- [Google OAuth]({{< relref "../google" >}})
- [Grafana Com OAuth]({{< relref "../grafana-com" >}})
- [Okta OAuth]({{< relref "../okta" >}})

> If your OAuth2 provider is not among them, you can use generic OAuth2 authentication to integrate it with Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your OAuth2 provider is not listed, you can use generic OAuth2 authentication.
```

## Before you begin

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To follow this guide:
```

> - Ensure that you have access to the [Grafana configuration file]({{< relref "docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-grafana#configuration-file-location" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you have access to the [Grafana configuration file]({{< relref "../../../../configure-grafana#configuration-file-location" >}}).
```

> - Learn how to create an OAuth2 application with your chosen OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure you know how to create an OAuth2 application with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.
```

> - (Optional) Learn about how to set up refresh tokens with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are using refresh tokens, ensure you know how to set them up with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.
```

## Steps

To integrate your OAuth2 provider with Grafana using our generic OAuth2 authentication, follow these steps:

1. Create an OAuth2 application in your chosen OAuth2 provider.
1. Set the callback URL for your OAuth2 app to `http://<my_grafana_server_name_or_ip>:<grafana_server_port>/login/generic_oauth`.

>    This callback URL must match the full HTTP address that you use in your browser to access Grafana, but with the suffixed path of `/login/generic_oauth`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the callback URL you provide is the complete HTTP address that you use to access Grafana via your browser, but with the appended path of `/login/generic_oauth`.
```

>    You may need to set the `root_url` option of `[server]` for the callback URL to be correct. For example, in case you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the callback URL to be correct, it might be necessary to set the `root_url` option to `[server]`. This is particularly relevant if Grafana is being served behind a proxy.
```

> 1. Update `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of Grafana configuration file:

Reviewer: Let's use a table to list all of the fields associated with this step. It's just another way to convey the same information, just a bit easier for the user to parse.

So the wording of this step could be:

1. Refer to the following table to update field values located in the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file:

>    1. Update `client_id` and `client_secret` fields to match client ID and client secret from your OAuth2 app.

Reviewer: And then here, let's add a table that lists all of the fields.

| Field name | Description  |
|---|---|
| `client_id`, `client_secret  | These field values must match ...   | 
| `auth_url` | Set this field to the token endpoint ...  |

etc, etc.

   1. Set `auth_url` field to the authorization endpoint of your OAuth2 provider.
   1. Set `token_url` field to the token endpoint of your OAuth2 provider.
   1. Set `api_url` field to the user information endpoint of your OAuth2 provider. Information returned by this endpoint has to be compatible with [OpenID UserInfo](https://connect2id.com/products/server/docs/api/userinfo).
   1. Update `enabled` field to `true`.
   1. Look at the list of other generic OAuth2 [configuration options]({{< relref "#configuration-options" >}}) and fill in the desired ones.
1. (Optional) Configure [refresh token]({{< relref "#refresh-token" >}}):
   1. Enabled `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.
   1. Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.generic_oauth]` section in Grafana configuration file with refresh token scope used by your OAuth2 provider.

>    1. Enable the refresh token on the provider if required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Enable the refresh token on the provider, if required.
```

>    1. Enable the refresh token on the provider if required.

Reviewer: how do I know if I should do this?

1. Configure [role mapping]({{< relref "#role-mapping" >}}).

> 1. (Optional) Configure [team synchronization]({{< relref "#team-synchronization" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Optional: Configure [team synchronization]({{< relref "#team-synchronization" >}}).
```

> 1. Restart Grafana. You should now see a generic OAuth2 login button on the login page and be able to login or sign up with your OAuth2 provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart Grafana. 

   You should now see a generic OAuth2 login button on the login page and be able to log in or sign up with your OAuth2 provider.
```

## Configuration options

> The table below describes all generic OAuth2 configuration options. Continue reading below for details on specific options. Like any other Grafana configuration, you can apply these options as environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table outlines the various generic OAuth2 configuration options available. These options can be applied as environment variables, similar to any other configuration within Grafana.
```

| Setting                      | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                    | Default         |
| ---------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |

> | `enabled`                    | No       | Whether generic OAuth2 authentication is allowed.                                                                                                                                              | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `enabled`                    | No       | Enables generic OAuth2 authentication.                                                                                                                                              | `false`         |
```

> | `name`                       | No       | Name used to refer to the generic OAuth2 authentication from Grafana's user interface.                                                                                                         | `OAuth`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `name`                       | No       | Name used to refer to the generic OAuth2 authentication from the Grafana user interface.                                                                                                         | `OAuth`         |
```

> | `icon`                       | No       | Icon used for the generic OAuth2 authentication in Grafana's user interface.                                                                                                                   | `signin`        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `icon`                       | No       | Icon used for the generic OAuth2 authentication in the Grafana user interface.                                                                                                                   | `signin`        |
```

| `client_id`                  | Yes      | Client ID provided by your OAuth2 app.                                                                                                                                                         |                 |
| `client_secret`              | Yes      | Client secret provided by your OAuth2 app.                                                                                                                                                     |                 |
| `auth_url`                   | Yes      | Authorization endpoint of your OAuth2 provider.                                                                                                                                                |                 |

> | `token_url`                  | Yes      | Endpoint used to obtain OAuth2 access token.                                                                                                                                                   |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `token_url`                  | Yes      | Endpoint used to obtain the OAuth2 access token.                                                                                                                                                   |                 |
```

| `api_url`                    | Yes      | Endpoint used to obtain user information compatible with [OpenID UserInfo](https://connect2id.com/products/server/docs/api/userinfo).                                                          |                 |

> | `auth_style`                 | No       | Name of the [OAuth2 AuthStyle](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/oauth2#AuthStyle) to be used when ID token is requested from OAuth2 provider.                                                   | `AutoDetect`    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `auth_style`                 | No       | Name of the [OAuth2 AuthStyle](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/oauth2#AuthStyle) to be used when ID token is requested from the OAuth2 provider.                                                   | `AutoDetect`    |
```

Reviewer: I would add a link from line 75 to the auth_style section you have below. Are you not able to fit in the contents from that section into this table? If it's too much information, add a link like "For more information about `auth_style`, refer to [auth_style](link)."

> | `scopes`                     | No       | List of comma- or space-separated OAuth2 scopes.                                                                                                                                               | `user:email`    |

Reviewer: Are there docs the user can refer to for more information about scopes?

| `empty_scopes`               | No       | Set to `true` to use an empty scope during authentication.                                                                                                                                     | `false`         |

> | `allow_sign_up`              | No       | Whether to allow new Grafana user creation through generic OAuth2 login. If set to `false`, then only existing Grafana users can log in with generic OAuth.                                    | `true`          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allow_sign_up`              | No       | Controls Grafana user creation through the generic OAuth2 login. Only existing Grafana users can log in with generic OAuth if set to' false'.                                    | `true`          |
```

> | `auto_login`                 | No       | Set to `true` to allow users to automatically log in and skip the login screen. This setting is ignored if multiple auth providers are configured to use auto login.                           | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `auto_login`                 | No       | Set to `true` to enable users to bypass the login screen and automatically log in. This setting is ignored if you configure multiple auth providers to use auto-login.                           | `false`         |
```

> | `id_token_attribute_name`    | No       | Name of the key used to extract the ID token from the returned OAuth2 token.                                                                                                                   | `id_token`      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id_token_attribute_name`    | No       | The name of the key used to extract the ID token from the returned OAuth2 token.                                                                                                                   | `id_token`      |
```

| `login_attribute_path`       | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for user login lookup from the user ID token.                                                                                  |                 |
| `name_attribute_path`        | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for user name lookup from the user ID token. This name will be used as user's display name.                                    |                 |
| `email_attribute_name`       | No       | Name of the key to use for user email lookup within the generic OAuth2 attribute map.                                                                                                          | `email:primary` |
| `role_attribute_path`        | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for Grafana role lookup.                                                                                                       |                 |

> | `role_attribute_strict`      | No       | Set to `true` to deny user login if Grafana role cannot be extracted using `role_attribute_path`.                                                                                              | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `role_attribute_strict`      | No       | Set to `true` to deny user login if the Grafana role cannot be extracted using `role_attribute_path`.                                                                                              | `false`         |
```

> | `allow_assign_grafana_admin` | No       | Set to `true` to enable automatic sync of Grafana server administrator role.                                                                                                                   | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allow_assign_grafana_admin` | No       | Set to `true` to enable automatic sync of the Grafana server administrator role.                                                                                                                   | `false`         |
```

> | `skip_org_role_sync`         | No       | Set to `true` to stop automatically syncing user roles. This will allow you to manually set organization roles for your users from within Grafana.                                             | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `skip_org_role_sync`         | No       | Set to `true` to stop automatically syncing user roles. This will allow you to set organization roles for your users from within Grafana manually.                                             | `false`         |
```

| `groups_attribute_path`      | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for user group lookup.                                                                                                         |                 |

> | `allowed_groups`             | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. User should be a member of at least one group to log in.                                                                                             |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allowed_groups`             | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. The user should be a member of at least one group to log in.                                                                                             |                 |
```

> | `allowed_organizations`      | No       | List of comma- or space-separated organizations. User should be a member of at least one organization to log in.                                                                               |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allowed_organizations`      | No       | List of comma- or space-separated organizations. The user should be a member of at least one organization to log in.                                                                               |                 |
```

> | `allowed_domains`            | No       | List of comma- or space-separated domains. User should belong to at least one domain to log in.                                                                                                |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allowed_domains`            | No       | List comma- or space-separated domains. The user should belong to at least one domain to log in.                                                                                                |                 |
```

> | `team_ids`                   | No       | String list of team IDs. If set, user has to be a member of one of the given teams to log in. Used together with `teams_url` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                    |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `team_ids`                   | No       | String list of team IDs. If set, the user must be a member of one of the given teams to log in. Used together with `teams_url` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                   |                 |
```

> | `team_ids_attribute_path`    | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for Grafana team ID lookup within the results returned by `teams_url` endpoint. Used together with `team_ids` and `teams_url`. |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `team_ids_attribute_path`    | No       | The [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for Grafana team ID lookup within the results returned by the `teams_url` endpoint. Used together with `team_ids` and `teams_url`. |                 |
```

> | `teams_url`                  | No       | URL used to query for team IDs. If not set, defaults to `/teams`. Used together with `team_ids` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                                                 |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `teams_url`                  | No       | The URL used to query for team IDs. If not set, the default value is `/teams`. Used together with `team_ids` and `team_ids_attribute_path`.                                                                 |                 |
```

> | `tls_skip_verify_insecure`   | No       | If set to `true`, client will not verify the server's certificate chain and host name. Should only be set to `true` for testing purposes.                                                      | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tls_skip_verify_insecure`   | No       | If set to `true`, the client will not verify the server's certificate chain and host name. It should only be set to `true` for testing purposes.                                                      | `false`         |
```

> | `tls_client_cert`            | No       | Path of the certificate.                                                                                                                                                                       |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tls_client_cert`            | No       | The path of the certificate.                                                                                                                                                                       |                 |
```

> | `tls_client_key`             | No       | Path to the key.                                                                                                                                                                               |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tls_client_key`             | No       | The path to the key.                                                                                                                                                                               |                 |
```

> | `tls_client_ca`              | No       | Path to the trusted certificate authority list.                                                                                                                                                |                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tls_client_ca`              | No       | The path to the trusted certificate authority list.                                                                                                                                                |                 |
```

> | `use_pkce`                   | No       | Set to `true` to use "proof key for code exchange" (PKCE).                                                                                                                                     | `false`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `use_pkce`                   | No       | Set to `true` to use Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE).                                                                                                                                     | `false`         |
```

### Auth style

`auth_style` controls which [OAuth2 AuthStyle](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/oauth2#AuthStyle) is used when token is requested from OAuth2 provider. It determines how `client_id` and `client_secret` are sent to Oauth2 provider.
Available values are `AutoDetect`, `InParams` and `InHeader`. By default, `AutoDetect` is used.

### Email address

> Grafana determines a user's email address by following the steps below until it finds and e-mail address:

Reviewer: This section contains a lot of technical detail that seems not relevant to what the user needs to do. Why is this information important to the user?

1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address via the `email` field encoded in the OAuth2 ID token.
1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `email_attribute_path` configuration option. The JSON used for the path lookup is the HTTP response obtained from querying the UserInfo endpoint specified via the `api_url` configuration option.
1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address in the `attributes` map encoded in the OAuth2 ID token. By default Grafana will perform a lookup into the attributes map using the `email:primary` key, however, this is configurable and can be adjusted by using the `email_attribute_name` configuration option.
1. Query the `/emails` endpoint of the OAuth2 provider's API (configured with `api_url`), then check for the presence of an email address marked as a primary address.
1. If no email address is found in steps (1-4), then the email address of the user is set to an empty string.

> ### Login

Reviewer: Same comment as with the email section. Why is this information important to the user? Seems like behind-the-scenes functioning of the system.

Grafana determines a user's login by using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `login_attribute_path` configuration option.
The order of operations is as follows:

1. Evaluate the `login_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the OAuth2 ID token.
1. Evaluate the `login_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint, which is specified via the `api_url` configuration option.

> ### Display name

Reviewer: name_attribute_path is addressed in the table. I would remove this section and rely on the table to convey whatever is important about this setting.

You can set a user's display name with [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) using the `name_attribute_path` configuration option. It operates the same way as the `login_attribute_path` option.

> ### Groups

Reviewer: I'm not sure how this technical detail is important to the user. Why do they need to know this? And can we add whatever is important to them to the table instead of having a separate section?

Group mappings are made using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) from the `groups_attribute_path` configuration option.
Grafana determines a user's groups by following the steps below until it finds the groups:

1. Evaluate the `groups_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the OAuth2 ID token.
1. Evaluate the `groups_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint, which is specified via the `api_url` configuration option.

The result of the JMESPath expression should be a string array of groups.

You can limit access to Grafana to only members of a given group or list of groups by setting the `allowed_groups` option.

### Teams

> OAuth2 provider teams are extracted using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression from the `team_ids_attribute_path` configuration option.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this information is important to the user.

The expression is evaluated against the JSON data obtained from Teams endpoint, which is specified via the `teams_url` configuration option.
The result should be a string array of OAuth2 provider team IDs.

> If `team_ids` configuration option is set, only users who are members of at least one of the specified teams will be able to authenticate to Grafana using your OAuth2 provider.

Reviewer: This does seem relevant and important to mention. Can this bit be included in the table which means we can remove this section?

### SSL/TLS configuration

You can specify the SSL/TLS configuration used by the client.

- Set `tls_client_cert` to the path of the certificate.
- Set `tls_client_key` to the path containing the key.
- Set `tls_client_ca` to the path containing a trusted certificate authority list.

> `tls_skip_verify_insecure` controls whether a client verifies the server's certificate chain and host name. If it is true, then SSL/TLS accepts any certificate presented by the server and any host name in that certificate. _You should only use this for testing_, because this mode leaves SSL/TLS susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks.

Reviewer: Is this too much information to include in the table?

> ### PKCE

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this is included in this topic. is this important for the user to know?

IETF's [RFC 7636](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636)
introduces "proof key for code exchange" (PKCE) which provides
additional protection against some forms of authorization code
interception attacks. PKCE will be required in [OAuth 2.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-03).

Grafana always uses the SHA256 based `S256` challenge method and a 128 bytes (base64url encoded) code verifier.

> ## Refresh token

Reviewer: Is this the same as the Optional step in the task written at the beginning of this topic? It looks like there are substeps in that task for configuring OAuth2 to use a refresh token. Is this section necessary?

When a user logs in using an OAuth2 provider, Grafana verifies that the access token has not expired. When an access token expires, Grafana uses the provided refresh token (if any exists) to obtain a new access token.

Grafana uses a refresh token to obtain a new access token without requiring the user to log in again. If a refresh token doesn't exist, Grafana logs the user out of the system after the access token has expired.

To configure generic OAuth2 to use a refresh token, perform one or both of the following tasks, if required:

- Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.generic_oauth]` section in Grafana configuration file with additional scopes
- Enable the refresh token on the provider

## Role Mapping

Unless `skip_org_role_sync` option is enabled, user's role will be set to the role obtained from the auth provider upon user login.
User's role is retrieved using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) from the `role_attribute_path` configuration option.
Grafana determines a user's role by following the steps below until it finds a role:

1. Evaluate the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the OAuth2 ID token.

> 1. Evaluate the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint, which is specified via the `api_url` configuration option.

Reviewer: I'm unsure of how this information is important to the user

The result after evaluation of the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression should be a valid Grafana role, for example, `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`.

If the `role_attribute_path` property does not return a role, then the user is assigned the role
specified by [the `auto_assign_org_role` option]({{< relref "../../../configure-grafana#auto_assign_org_role" >}}).
You can disable this default role assignment by setting `role_attribute_strict = true`.
It denies user access if no role or an invalid role is returned.

To ease configuration of a proper JMESPath expression, you can test/evaluate expressions with custom payloads at http://jmespath.org/.

### Role mapping examples

> 

Reviewer: There should be intro text here. We want to avoid stacked heading. So here you can simply add: "This section includes examples of how to map roles in an OAuth2 implementation." - or something like that.

#### Map user organization role

> 

Reviewer: We need an introduction here, like "The following two examples show you how to map organization roles."

auth_style =
```

> ## Configuring your OAuth2 app

Reviewer: This is a task and should therefore make use of numbered steps.

Author: Maybe it would make more sense to have a separate section formatted as a task with numbered steps? Basically, there are two main things that the user has to do - 1) create and configure an OAuth app 2) configure Grafana referencing the OAuth app that they've created. The steps under these "tasks" are pretty simple, but there are a looooot of different optional config options. What format would you suggest?

First, you will need to create an OAuth application with your OAuth2 provider. This process will differ depending on the OAuth provider that you want to use.
We provide some [examples of setting up generic OAuth]({{< relref "#examples-of-setting-up-generic-oauth" >}}), but please refer to the documentation of your OAuth provider to help you with this step.

OAuth application will provide you with a client ID and a client secret, which you will use in Grafana's Generic OAuth configuration.

> ### Callback URL

Reviewer: Is this a step in the task?

When you create the application you will need to specify a callback URL. Specify this as the callback:

```bash
http://<my_grafana_server_name_or_ip>:<grafana_server_port>/login/generic_oauth
```

This callback URL must match the full HTTP address that you use in your browser to access Grafana, but with the suffixed path of `/login/generic_oauth`.

You may need to set the `root_url` option of `[server]` for the callback URL to be correct. For example, in case you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

> ## Configuration options

Reviewer: Is this part of the configuration task?

1. Evaluate the `login_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the OAuth ID token.
1. Evaluate the `login_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint, which is specified via the `api_url` configuration option.

### Display name

You can set a user's display name with [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) using the `name_attribute_path` configuration option. It operates the same way as the `login_attribute_path` option.

### Groups

Group mappings are made using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) from the `groups_attribute_path` configuration option.
Grafana determines a user's groups by following the steps below until it finds the groups:

1. Evaluate the `groups_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the OAuth ID token.
1. Evaluate the `groups_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint, which is specified via the `api_url` configuration option.

The result of the JMESPath expression should be a string array of groups.

You can limit access to Grafana to only members of a given group or list of groups by setting the `allowed_groups` option.

### Teams

> OAuth provider teams are extracted using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression from the `team_ids_attribute_path` configuration option.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why a user needs to know this information. Does this impact how they complete the task?

role_attribute_path = role
```

> In the following more complex example, the user is granted the `Admin` role because they have a role `admin`. If a user has a role `editor`, `Editor` role will be granted, otherwise `Viewer`.

Reviewer: @IevaVasiljeva , I'm unsure of what this means. Do we mean to say: "...the user is granted the system administrator role because they have the `admin` role assignment. If the user has the `editor` role, they are granted the editor role in the system. Otherwise, the user is granted the `Viewer` role."

Set `auto_login` option to true to attempt login automatically, skipping the login screen.
This setting is ignored if multiple auth providers are configured to use auto login.

```
auto_login = true
```

> ## Set up OAuth2 with Auth0

Author: I've moved all the examples to the bottom of the page.

role_attribute_path = contains(info.roles[*], 'admin') && 'Admin' || contains(info.roles[*], 'editor') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
```

#### Map server administrator role

In the following example, the user is granted the Grafana server administrator role.

Payload:

```json
{
    ...
    "info": {
        ...
        "roles": [
            "admin",
        ],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

Config:

```ini
role_attribute_path = contains(info.roles[*], 'admin') && 'GrafanaAdmin' || contains(info.roles[*], 'editor') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
allow_assign_grafana_admin = true
```

## Configure team synchronization

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-enterprise" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud](/docs/grafana-cloud/).

> With Team Sync you can map your generic OAuth2 groups to teams in Grafana so that the users are automatically added to the correct teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using Team Sync, you can link your OAuth2 groups to teams within Grafana. This will automatically assign users to their appropriate teams.
```

> Generic OAuth2 groups can be referenced by group ID, like `8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d` or `myteam`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generic OAuth2 groups can be referenced by group ID, such as `8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d` or `myteam`.
```

> Refer to [configuration options]({{< relref "#configuration-options" >}}) for information on how to configure OAuth2 groups with Grafana using the `groups_attribute_path` configuration option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on configuring OAuth2 groups with Grafana using the `groups_attribute_path` configuration option, refer to [configuration options]({{< relref "#configuration-options" >}}).
```

> ## Team synchronization

Reviewer: Why is this here? Can this information be included in the team sync setting of the table above?

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-enterprise" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud](/docs/grafana-cloud/).

With Team Sync you can map your generic OAuth2 groups to teams in Grafana so that the users are automatically added to the correct teams.

Generic OAuth2 groups can be referenced by group ID, like `8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d` or `myteam`.

> Refer to [Groups]({{< relref "#groups" >}}) for information on how to configure OAuth2 groups with Grafana.

Reviewer: why are we talking about groups in the teams section of this doc?

Reviewer: reviewed, all good.

By default, a refresh token is included in the response for the **Authorization Code Grant**.

> ## Set up OAuth2 with Centrify

Author: I'm tempted to remove this section, as Centrify has been taken over by Delinea, so I imagine this is not accurate anymore. But the sign-up process to test it out is super cumbersome, so I haven't had the chance to test it.

}
```

## Examples of setting up generic OAuth2

> 

Reviewer: Need an intro sentence here like "This section includes examples of ..."

> ### Set up OAuth2 with Auth0

Reviewer: Is this a new task that is unrelated to the Configure task? We need an introduction that helps explain what this is and why a user might want to complete this task. Are there any before you begin items to mention?

1. Create an application using the following parameters:

- Name: Grafana
- Type: Regular Web Application

1. Go to the `Settings` tab and set:

- Allowed Callback URLs: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Click `Save Changes`, then use the values from the `Settings` tab to configure Grafana:

   ```bash
   [auth.generic_oauth]
   enabled = true
   allow_sign_up = true
   auto_login = false
   team_ids =
   allowed_organizations =
   name = Auth0
   client_id = <client id>
   client_secret = <client secret>
   scopes = openid profile email offline_access
   auth_url = https://<domain>/authorize
   token_url = https://<domain>/oauth/token
   api_url = https://<domain>/userinfo
   use_pkce = true
   ```

> ### Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket

Reviewer: Same here, need an intro and before you begin, if relevant.

1. Go to the `Settings` > `Workspace setting` > `OAuth consumers`

1. Create an application by selecting `Add consumer` and using the following parameters:

- Allowed Callback URLs: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Click `Save`, then use the `Key` and `Secret` from the consumer description to configure Grafana:

```bash
[auth.generic_oauth]
name = BitBucket
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
auto_login = false
client_id = <client key>
client_secret = <client secret>
scopes = account email
auth_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/authorize
token_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/access_token
api_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user
teams_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user/permissions/workspaces
team_ids_attribute_path = values[*].workspace.slug
team_ids =
allowed_organizations =
```

By default, a refresh token is included in the response for the **Authorization Code Grant**.

### Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin

> 

Reviewer: and same here

}
```

## Examples of setting up generic OAuth2

This section includes examples of setting up generic OAuth2 integration.

### Set up OAuth2 with Auth0

To set up generic OAuth2 authentication with Auth0, follow these steps:

> 1. Create an application using the following parameters:

Reviewer: Where do they complete this step? In Grafana? Or elsewhere? Let's add wherever this do this, like "Sign in to Grafana and create an application using the ..."

   - Name: Grafana
   - Type: Regular Web Application

1. Go to the **Settings** tab and set **Allowed Callback URLs** to `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`.

1. Click **Save Changes**.

> 1. Use the values from the **Settings** tab to configure Grafana:

Reviewer: Where do I configure Grafana? Is this the configuration file? If so, let's mention that, and also mention the section within that file.

   ```bash
   [auth.generic_oauth]
   enabled = true
   allow_sign_up = true
   auto_login = false
   team_ids =
   allowed_organizations =
   name = Auth0
   client_id = <client id>
   client_secret = <client secret>
   scopes = openid profile email offline_access
   auth_url = https://<domain>/authorize
   token_url = https://<domain>/oauth/token
   api_url = https://<domain>/userinfo
   use_pkce = true
   ```

### Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket

To set up generic OAuth2 authentication with Bitbucket, follow these steps:

> 1. Navigate to **Settings > Workspace setting > OAuth consumers**.

Reviewer: Where do they do this? Which system?

1. Create an application by selecting **Add consumer** and using the following parameters:

   - Allowed Callback URLs: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Click **Save**.

> 1. Use the `Key` and `Secret` from the consumer description to configure Grafana:

Reviewer: Update this step based on earlier comment about where and how they do this in Grafana.

   ```bash
   [auth.generic_oauth]
   name = BitBucket
   enabled = true
   allow_sign_up = true
   auto_login = false
   client_id = <client key>
   client_secret = <client secret>
   scopes = account email
   auth_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/authorize
   token_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/access_token
   api_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user
   teams_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user/permissions/workspaces
   team_ids_attribute_path = values[*].workspace.slug
   team_ids =
   allowed_organizations =
   ```

By default, a refresh token is included in the response for the **Authorization Code Grant**.

### Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin

To set up generic OAuth2 authentication with OneLogin, follow these steps:

> 1. Create a new Custom Connector with the following settings:

Reviewer: Where do I do this?

   - Name: Grafana
   - Sign On Method: OpenID Connect
   - Redirect URI: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`
   - Signing Algorithm: RS256
   - Login URL: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Add an App to the Grafana Connector:

   - Display Name: Grafana

1. Under the **SSO** tab on the **Grafana App details** page you'll find the Client ID and Client Secret.

   Your OneLogin Domain will match the URL you use to access OneLogin.

> 1. Configure Grafana as follows:

Reviewer: where/how do I do this?

}
```

## Examples of setting up generic OAuth2

This section includes examples of setting up generic OAuth2 integration.

### Set up OAuth2 with Auth0

To set up generic OAuth2 authentication with Auth0, follow these steps:

1. Create an Auth0 application using the following parameters:

   - Name: Grafana
   - Type: Regular Web Application

1. Go to the **Settings** tab of the application and set **Allowed Callback URLs** to `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`.

1. Click **Save Changes**.

> 1. Fill in the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file using the values from the **Settings** tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file using the values from the **Settings** tab:
```

   ```bash
   [auth.generic_oauth]
   enabled = true
   allow_sign_up = true
   auto_login = false
   team_ids =
   allowed_organizations =
   name = Auth0
   client_id = <client id>
   client_secret = <client secret>
   scopes = openid profile email offline_access
   auth_url = https://<domain>/authorize
   token_url = https://<domain>/oauth/token
   api_url = https://<domain>/userinfo
   use_pkce = true
   ```

### Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket

To set up generic OAuth2 authentication with Bitbucket, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to **Settings > Workspace setting > OAuth consumers** in BitBucket.

1. Create an application by selecting **Add consumer** and using the following parameters:

   - Allowed Callback URLs: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Click **Save**.

> 1. Fill in the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file using the values from the `Key` and `Secret` from the consumer description:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file using the values from the `Key` and `Secret` from the consumer description:
```

   ```bash
   [auth.generic_oauth]
   name = BitBucket
   enabled = true
   allow_sign_up = true
   auto_login = false
   client_id = <client key>
   client_secret = <client secret>
   scopes = account email
   auth_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/authorize
   token_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/access_token
   api_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user
   teams_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user/permissions/workspaces
   team_ids_attribute_path = values[*].workspace.slug
   team_ids =
   allowed_organizations =
   ```

By default, a refresh token is included in the response for the **Authorization Code Grant**.

### Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin

To set up generic OAuth2 authentication with OneLogin, follow these steps:

1. Create a new Custom Connector in OneLogin with the following settings:

   - Name: Grafana
   - Sign On Method: OpenID Connect
   - Redirect URI: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`
   - Signing Algorithm: RS256
   - Login URL: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Add an app to the Grafana Connector:

   - Display Name: Grafana

> 1. Fill in the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file using the client ID and client secret from **SSO** tab of the app details page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file using the client ID and client secret from the **SSO** tab of the app details page:
```
